Stopwatch with HTML and JS (Workshop Bounty) (#1368)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/stopwatch/README.md

---
name: 'Stopwatch'
description: 'Build a simple stopwatch with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.'

> author: '@faisalsayed10'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: '@faisalsayed10'
img: 'https://cloud-ijsj5lfdg.vercel.app/0image.png'
```

## Part 2: Setup

### Setting up your code environment on Repl.it

[Repl.it](https://repl.it) is an online code editor. You don't have to use Repl.it but I suggest you do as it sets everything up for you and you don't require any installations.

Also, I have prepared a starter code for you to begin with. Just go [here](https://repl.it/@FaisalSayed1/Stopwatch-Starter-Code) and your coding environment will spin up in just a few seconds!

You should see something like the following:

![Starter Code](https://cloud-c4pzov9uf.vercel.app/0image.png)

Click on the **FORK** button on the top and you are good to go!

## Part 3: Building the project

### 1) Starter Code

Let's first have a look at our starter code. In our `index.html` file, we have a `container` div and an `<h1>` tag inside it.

Next if we take a look in our `style.css` file, all the styles are prewritten for you! But if you want to change any styles, feel free to do it!

### 2) HTML

We need to add some more HTML lines to build our stopwatch. We will write all our HTML code inside the `container` div. Define a `<div>` tag with a class of `main` below the `<h1>` tag.

```html
<h1>Stopwatch</h1>
<div class="main"></div>
```

> Inside the `main` div, we will add a `<p>` tag with a class of `time` and seperate `<span>` tags for minutes, seconds and miliseconds respectively. Confusing? You'll get it in a minute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the `main` div, we will add a `<p>` tag with a class of `time` and separate `<span>` tags for minutes, seconds, and milliseconds respectively. Confusing? You'll get it in a minute.
```

Reviewer 2: Just went through find this typo :)

    </div>
  </div>
  <script src="script.js"></script>
</body>
```

</details>

And this is what you'll see when you click **RUN**

![Output after writing the HTML code](https://cloud-qnajywf4c.vercel.app/0image.png)

Here's a funfact! You just completed writing HTML!

As the `style.css` file was prewritten for you, we will now directly move on to the JavaScript.

## 3) JavaScript

Navigate to your `script.js` file and let's start writing JavaScript!

First we will link the milliseconds, seconds and minutes in our HTML with some JavaScript variables.

```js
const milisec = document.querySelector('.milliseconds')
const sec = document.querySelector('.seconds')
const min = document.querySelector('.minutes')
```

Explanation: We define 3 variables `milisec`, `sec` and `min` using `const` and set their value to the first element that matches a specified CSS class(s) in the document. In our case, those CSS selectors are `.milliseconds` , `.seconds` , `.minutes` respectively.

Now, if you are wondering what is a `const` and what is a `querySelector()`, let me clear all your doubts!

Mainly, there are 3 ways of defining a variable in JavaScript.

1. `var`
2. `let`
3. `const`

> We will ignore `var` for now as we won't use it. If we define a variable using `let` then we can change its value anytime in the code afterwards. But, a `const` variable's value always remains constant and it will never change. Even if you try to change it, the console will throw you errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will ignore `var` for now as we won't use it. If we define a variable using `let`, then we can change its value anytime in the code afterwards. Meanwhile, a `const` (“constant”)’s value always remains constant and cannot be changed—if you try to change it, JavaScript will show you an error in the console.
```
